# Numpy

과학계산을 위한 라이브러리.

- 고성능, 다차원 배열 객체
- 수학, 통계, 선형 대수, 푸리에 변환등을 통한 배열연산!

## Why should you use Numpy?

#### Performance

- **Efficient Data Structures**  
  Numpy provides a powerful N-dimensional array object, `ndarray`, which is faster than Python lists for numerical oprations.

- **Vectorization**  
  Numpy operations are vectorized, which means they are implemented in C and avoid the overhead of Python lists for numerical operations.

- **Memory Efficiency**  
  Numpy arrays consume less memory compared to standard Python lists, especially for large datasets.

#### Functionality

- **Mathematical Functions**  
  Numpy offers a comprehensive set of mathematical functions that operate directly on arrays, enabling complex computations with minimal code.

- **Broadcasting**  
  Numpy supports broadcasting, allowing arithmetic operations to be performed on arrays of different shapes without requiring explicit looping or reshaping.

- **Interoperability**  
  Numpy arrays can be easily integrated with other scientific and data analysis libraries, such as SciPy, pandas, and scikit-learn

#### Convenience

- **Ease of Use**  
  Numpy simplifies many numerical tasks. For example, operations like element-wise addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division can be performed with simple syntax.

- **Indexing and Slicing**  
  Numpy provides powerful indexing and slicing capabilities, allowing you to access and manipulate sub-arrays easily.

- **Reshaping and Transposing**  
  Arrays can be easily reshaped and transposed, facilitating the handling of data in various forms.

#### Community & Integration

- Widely used and actively developed
- Interfacing with other languages like C/C++, R, Julia and MATLAB.

# Pandas

## Why should you use Pandas?

#### Data Structure

- **[DataFrames](#DataFrame)**  
  Pandas provides the DataFrame data structure, which is a _table-like structure_ with labeled axes (rows and columns).  
  This is ideal for representing and manipulating structured data.

- **[Series](#Series)**  
  Pandas also offers the Series data structure, which is a _one-dimensional labeled array_ capable of holding any data type.

#### Ease of Data Manipulation

- **Data Cleaning and Preparation**  
  Pandas offers a wide array of tools for cleaning and preparing data, such as handling missing values, [filtering](#Filtering), [merging](#Merging), reshaping, and [grouping](#Grouping) data.

- **Powerful Indexing and Selection**  
  With pandas, you can perform complex data [selection](#Selection) and subsetting operations using intuitive and powerful [indexing](#Indexing) options, such as `.loc` and `.iloc`

#### Data Aggregation and Transformation

- **Group By Operations**  
  Pandas provides easy-to-use functionality for [splitting](#Splitting) data into groups, [applying](#Applying) functions to each group, and combining the resutls.  
  This is essential for summarizing and aggregating data.

- **Pivot Tables and Crosstabs**  
  You can create pivot tables and cross-tabulations with pandas to analyze the relationship between different variables in the dataset.

#### Time Series Analysis

- **Date and Time Functionality**  
  pandas has extensive support for date and time data, making it a powerful tool for time series analysis.

#### Integration with Other Tools

- **Compatibility with NumPy**  
  Pandas is built on top of NumPy, so it integrates seamlessly with NumPy arrays and functions, allowing you to leverage the power of both libraries.

- **Interoperability with Other Libraries**  
  Pandas works well with other Python libraries, such as Matplotlib for visualization, scikit-lean for machine learning, and SQLAlchemy for database interaction.

#### Data Input and Output

- **Reading and Writing Data**  
  Pandas provides functions to read data from various file formats, including CSV, Excel, JSON, SQL databases, and more.  
  It also supports writing data to these formats, making data import and export straightforward.

- **Integration with Database**  
  You can easily load data from and save data to SQL databases, allowing seamless integration with relational database management systems.

#### Performance

- **Efficient Handling of Large Datasets**  
  While not as fast as some specialized big data tools, pandas is optimized for performance and can handle reasonably large datasets efficiently.

- **Vectorized Operations**  
  Like NumPy, pandas operations are often vectorized,

Python Excel

**numpy** one dimensional array -> **pandas** series

## DataFrame

#### Series

Extract: `df['column']`

#### row

## Filtering

- query: 쿼리 문자열 사용
- loc: 라벨 사용
- iloc: index 사용
- drop: 행 or 열 삭제
- isin: 특정 값이 포함된 행 삭제

## Merging

## Grouping

#### Splitting

#### Applying

## Join & Concat

#### Join

SQL과 유사한 Dataframe 결합 연산

- Inner: 공통키 기준
- Left: 왼쪽 프레임 유지, 오른쪽 공동키 기준
- Right: 오른쪽 프레임 유지, 왼쪽 공동키 기준
- Outer: 모든 데이터 결합, 공통키 없을시 NaN

```python
import pandas as pd

# 데이터 프레임 생성
df1 = pd.DataFrame({
    'key': ['A', 'B', 'C'],
    'value1': [1, 2, 3]
})

df2 = pd.DataFrame({
    'key': ['B', 'C', 'D'],
    'value2': [4, 5, 6]
})

# 이너 조인
inner_join = pd.merge(df1, df2, on='key', how='inner')
print('Inner Join:\n', inner_join)

# 레프트 조인
left_join = pd.merge(df1, df2, on='key', how='left')
print('Left Join:\n', left_join)

# 라이트 조인
right_join = pd.merge(df1, df2, on='key', how='right')
print('Right Join:\n', right_join)

# 아우터 조인
outer_join = pd.merge(df1, df2, on='key', how='outer')
print('Outer Join:\n', outer_join)
```

#### Concatenaate

데이터프레임들을 행 or 열 방향으로 연결

```python
pd.concat() # 여러개, 행 or 열
df.append() # 2개, 행
```

## Selection

## Indexing

# Aggregation Functions (집계함수)

데이터의 여러값 -> 하나의 요약된 값

- sum
- mean
- median
- min
- max
- count
- std: 표준편차
- var: 분산

# Transformation Functions (변환함수)

데이터의 각 요소 변환(전처리, 정규화등)

- apply: 특정 함수 적용 (to 행 or 열)
- map: 특정 함수 적용 (to 시리즈의 각 요소)
- replace: 특정 값 -> 다른 값
- astype: 타입 변환
