# A/D Converter

Analog -> Digital

전위를 나누어서(분해), 다른 데이터로 해석한다

- An analog signal continuously changes with time.  
  => We need to sample it at specific intervals

## Why should I convert analog signal to digital signal?

> Microcontrollers **can't read values** unless _it's digital data._  
> This is because microcontrollers can only see **"levels"** of the voltage,  
> which depends on the resolution of the ADC and the system voltage.

## Sampling & Holding

### Sample

Measuring analog data at a specific interval

#### Sampling Rate (Sampling Frequency, Fs)

- SPS(S/s) : Sampling Per Second

You can change the interval of sampling for better precision

- Many sample -> more precision but many data
- Few sample -> less precision but less data

`Fs = 1 / T`

- Fs : Sampling Frequency
- T : Period of the sample or the time it takes before sampling again

- Low frequency analog signal  
  You don't have to sample it many times
- High frequency analog signal  
  You have to sample it many times

If you use inappropriate sampling rate, it differs greatly from the original.  
(This is called "aliasing".)

#### To prevent signal from Aliasing

You can use [Nyquist Theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nyquist%E2%80%93Shannon_sampling_theorem) to prevent analog signal from aliasing.

According to the theorem, the sampling rate/frequency needs to be **at least twice as much** as the highest frequency in the signal to reacreate the original analog signal.

Finding Nyquist frequency :

`fNyquist = 2fMax`

### Hold

The sampled data is holded for digitization

### When do I sample?

1. start point
2. maximum point
3. minimum point

## Quantizing & Encoding

After sampling, the ADC assigns a numerical value to the sampled voltage level.

It searches for the nearest value corresponding to the amplitude of the sampled signal

# 전압분배

VCC: 3V

## Sensor

MCU UART(RX, TX) -> FI232 -> PC USB(D+, D-)

MCU UART: 전이중

PC USB: 반이중

# CdS - Cadmium Sulfide

A semiconductor material as a **light-dependent resistor** or **photoresistor**

Cadmium : Cd, atomic number 48
Sulfide : S2-, sulfur ion (compounds containing sulfur)

## Characteristic

- When light falls on CdS, its resistance changes  
  You can use this for light-sensing applications

# 잡음 처리 (D+, D-) => 차동 입출력

잡음이 발생해도, 전위차는 동일하다

- signal, - signal

CAN 통신 -> 자동차 -> ECU

현대모비스 MCU -> Freescale, Infinian?

# Voltage reference

- provide a stable and precise voltage output
- serves as a reliable reference point for other circuit elements, such

# Signal

## FFT - Fast Fuerier Transform

도플러 효과
거리에 따른 주파수차이 -> speed

# Control

# LCD Controlling

## DDRG

### RS - Register Select

0(Control)
1(Data)

### RW - Read Write

0(Write)

### Data

0000_0000

# References

## [How does ADC work?](https://www.arrow.com/en/research-and-events/articles/engineering-resource-basics-of-analog-to-digital-converters#:~:text=ADCs%20follow%20a%20sequence%20when%20converting%20analog%20signals,the%20ADC%20are%20its%20sampling%20rate%20and%20resolution.)
